Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning.
This is an additional tutorial to talk about the soft Maxim cross entropy functions.
It is not 100 percent necessary in order for you to go through all of the parts that we've been through
in the main part of this section where we're talking mother convolution on neural networks but at the
same time I thought it would be a good addition to your bag of knowledge and skill set.
So let's go ahead and dig into these functions.
So to start off with what we have here is the conclusion of neural network that we built in the main
part of the section and then at the end it pops out some probabilities for zero point ninety five for
a dog and 0 0 5 5 4 5 percent for a cat.
Given that photo in the left as an input this is after the train has been conducted this is actually
it's running and it's classifying a certain image.
And so the question here is how come these two values add up to one because as far as we know from everything
we've learned about artificial neural networks there is nothing to say that these two final neurons
are connected between each other.
So how would they know what the value of the hold each one of them know what the value of the other
one is.
And how would they know to add their values up to one.
Well the answer is they wouldn't.
In the classic version of artificial neural network and the only way that they do is because we introduce
a special function called the soft max function in order to help us out of the situation.
So normally what would happen is the dog and the cat neurons would have any kind of real values.
They don't have to be they don't have to add up to one but then we would apply the soft max function
which is written up over there at the top.
And that would bring these values to be between 0 and 1 and it would make them add up to 1.
And to quote Wikipedia the source max function or the normalized exponential function is a generalization
of the logistic function that quote unquote squashes a k dimensional vector of arbitrary real values
to a k dimensional vector of real values in the range of 0 to 1 that add up to 1.
So basically it does exactly what we want.
It brings these values to be between 0 and 1 and makes sure that they add up to 1.
And the way it works is that the way that is this is possible is that because at the bottom we're here
you can see that there is a summation.
So it takes the exponent and puts it in the power of Z and adds it up so Z wants it to across all of
your classes.
All of these values.
And so that's your normalization happening right there.
So that's how the soft max function works and it makes sense to introduce the soft max function into
convolution all neural networks.
Because how strange would it be if you had a possible classes of a dog and a cat and for the dog class
you had probability of 80 percent and for the cat class you had a probability of 45 percent right.
It just doesn't make sense like that and therefore it's much better when you introduce a soft max function
and that's what you'll find happening most of the time in convolution all neural networks.
Now the other thing is that the soft max function comes hand-in-hand with something called The Cross
entropy function and it's a very handy thing for us so let's first look at the formula.
This is what the cross entropy function looks like.
We're actually going to be using a different calculation we're gonna be using this representation of
the Cross century.
But the result is basically the same.
This is just easier to calculate.
And what I know this might sound very unrelated to anything right now just formulas on your screen but
there will be some additional recommended reading at the end of this section so don't worry if you're
not picking up on the math.
Even if we haven't explained the math right now.
But the point here is that what is the cross entropy will across entropy function remember how we previously
in artificial neural networks we had a function called the mean a squared error function which we used
as the cost function for assessing our network performance and our goal was to minimize the MSE in order
to optimize our network performance.
Well that was our cost function.
Then there there and in convolution of neural networks we can still use MSE but a better option in convolution
or neural networks after you apply the soft max function turns out to be the cross entropy function
and in convolution on neural networks when you apply the cross injury functions not cost called the
cost function anymore it's called the loss function and they they're very similar.
They're just little terminal logical differences and little like little bit different and all what they
mean.
But for all purposes it's pretty much the same thing.
And what happens is the lost function is again something that we want to minimize in order to maximize
the performance of our network.
So let's have a look look at a quick example on how of how this function can be applied.
So let's say we've put an image of a dog entire network.
The predicted value for dog is zero point nine and this is during the training.
So we know that we know the label that is a dog.
So the predictive value is zero point nine.
The predictive value for cat is zero point one.
Then here we have the label so we know it's a dog because this is training and one for dogs or for Cat.
And so in this case you need to use use to plug these numbers into your formula for the cross entropy.
So how you do it is the values on the left go into the variable Q The one that is under the logarithm
in the on the right side and the values from the right would go into P and so it's important to remember
which one goes there where because if you get them wrong you'd want to be taking a logarithm from a
from a zero value and or a log in from a one.
So you just want to plug them in.
Make sure you plug them into the correct places and then you basically add that up.
So that's how the cross century works and we'll look at a.
Actually right now we're just going to look at a specific step by step example of applying this function
in real life and it'll kind of make make more sense.
What's cross entropy is and it'll be less like my goal in this material is to make you more comfortable
of cross century because it can sound very convoluted and no pun intended.
It can like convolution or neural networks.
It can sound very complex right scary but it's not.
That's that's the point.
So let's go ahead and apply it just so we know that it's not scary.
So here's the neural net and also this will explain why we're doing this why we're looking into different
class functions.
So neural network y neural network to let's say we have two neural networks and then we pass an image
of a dog.
And we know that this is a dog and not a cat.
And then we have another image of a cat this time an animal and it's a cat not a dog.
And here we have a weird looking animal which is in fact a dog and not a cat.
If you look very closely.
So we want to see what our neural networks were it will predict in the first case neural network one
90 percent dog 10 percent cats correct neural network number two 60 percent dog 40 percent cat still
correct.
Worse but correct.
Second option.
First neural network 10 percent cat dog 90 percent cat correct neural network number.
30 percent dog 70 percent cat worse but still correct.
And then finally neural network one in image 3 neural network one.
40 percent dog 60 percent cat incorrect neural network Number Two.
10 percent dog 90 percent cat incorrect and worse.
So the key here is that even though both networks got it wrong in the last one through out all three
images neural network while one was outperforming neural network two.
So even in the last case it was very it had a it gave dog like a 40 percent chance as opposed to neural
network to only give dog a 10 percent chance.
So neural network 1 is outperforming across the board when compared to a neural network too.
And so now we're going to look at the functions that they can measure performance that we've kind of
talked about the.
So let's put these into a table.
So there is a neural network one you have the wrong number.
So that's the image number.
And then for image one you have what it predicted 90 percent dog temps and cat.
So there's the hat variables and then you have the actual value.
So Dog correct cat incorrect.
Same thing for image number two.
And same thing for a minimum of three.
And same for neural network number two.
So a dog 60 percent cats 40 percent in the first image.
That's what it predicted.
Correct answer as dog not a cat and so on and so now let's see what errors we can actually get.
So what errors we can calculate to estimate the performance and monitor the performance of our networks.
So one type of error is called the classification error and that is basically just asking it did you
get it right or not regardless of the probabilities is just did you get it right or did you not get
it right.
So in both cases for both neural networks each of them they've got one 0.
So this is how many they go wrong.
So they got one out of three wrong.
So thirty three percent error rate for neural network 1 and 33 percent error rate for neural network
2 as a basically from this standpoint both neural networks perform at the same level but we know that's
not true.
We know that neural network Guan is outperforming neural network too.
That's why a classification error is not a good measure especially for the purposes of back propagation
mean squared error different.
And by the way I did these calculations in Excel I just didn't want to bore you with them but you can
totally just sit down and do them on a paper or an Excel.
These are very straightforward calculations is basically take the sum of squared errors and then just
take the average across your across your observations.
And that's blessed pretty much it.
So for the hearing at network 1 you get 25 percent for neural network to you get seventy one percent
error rate.
So as you can see this one is more accurate it's telling us that neural net everyone has a much lower
error rate the neural network 2 and then cross entropy again.
We've seen the formula.
You can also calculate this this is actually even easier to calculate than the mean squared error cross
error across entropy gives you 38 percent for neural network 1 and 1.0 6 for neural network 2.
So you can see the results are a bit different.
When you look at them like that when you look at the mean square error and cross entropy.
The question of why would you use cross entropy over mean the squared error isn't just about the kind
of like the numbers that this but this.
These calculations were just to show you that this is all it's all doable you can just do it on a paper.
It's not.
It is a not very intense mathematics.
These are pretty pretty simple straightforward things.
But the question of why would you use Minsk cross entropy over mean squared error.
It's a very very good question to ask.
I'm glad you asked it.
The answer to that is like there's several advantages of cross entropy over mean squared era which are
not obvious.
And so I'll I'll mention a couple but other then I'll I'll let you know where you can find out more
so.
One of them is that if if for instance your at the very start of your back propagation your output value
is very very very very tiny very tiny.
So it's much smaller than the actual value that you want.
Then at the very start the gradient in your gradient descent will be very very low and you it won't
be enough it'll be very hard for the neural network to actually start doing something and start moving
around and start adjusting those weights and start moving start actually moving in the right direction
whereas when you use something like the cross entropy because it's got that logarithm in it it actually
helps the network assess even a small area like that and do something about it.
Here's how to think about it.
So let's say in again this is very very intuitive approach.
There's there's there's gonna be a link to the mathematics and you can derive these things through the
mathematics in more detail but a very intuitive approach.
Let's say your like your outcome that you want is is one.
And right now you are at 1 one millionth of one.
You're right zero point zero zero zero zero zero one.
And then you improve next time you improve your outcome from from one millionth to one thousandth.
And in terms of if you calculate the squared error you just subtracting one from the other or basically
in each case you calculate the square error and you'll see that the squared errors when you compare
one case versus the other.
It didn't change that much.
You didn't improve your network that much when you're looking at the mean squared error but if you're
looking at the cross entropy because you're taking a logarithm and then you're comparing the two dividing
one to the other you will see that you have actually improved your network significantly so you that
that jump from one millionth to one thousandth in means squared error terms will be very low it will
be insignificant and it won't it won't guide your gradient boosting process or your back propagation
in the right direction it will it will it will guide it in the right direction but it'll be like a very
slow guidance it won't have enough power.
Whereas if you do that across entropy cross entropy will understand that oh even though these are very
small adjustments that are just you know making a tiny change in absolute terms in relative terms it's
a huge improvement.
And we we are definitely going in the right direction.
Let's keep going that way.
So cross entropy will help your neural network get to the right gets to the optimal state is a better
way for the neural network to get to get to an optimal state.
But bear in mind that this only works when the cross entropy is only the preferred method only for classification.
So if you're talking about things like regression like which we had an artificial neural networks then
you would rather go with me and squared error whereas cross entropy is better for classification and
again it has to do with the fact that we're using soft make functions.
So that's a kind of intuitive explanation of that.
A good place to learn a bit more about that if you're really interested in you know why are we using
cross entropy versus mean squared error.
Google a video by Geoffrey Hinton called the soft max output function and he explains it very well.
And you know being the godfather of deep learning who can explain it better anyway.
And by the way any video by Geoffrey Hinton is golden.
He's just got a huge talent for explaining things anyway so that's that's soft Max versus cross entropy
I hope that gives you kind of like an intuitive understanding of what's going on here.
But more importantly that you're not put off by the term cross entropy because hard line will mention
it in the practical serials and I wanted to make sure that you're prepared for that and it's it's just
another way of calculating your loss function and another way of optimizing your network which is specifically
tailored to classification problems and therefore can evolutionary neural networks and comes in hand-in-hand
with the soft max function.
So additional reading if you'd like a light introduction into cross entropy if you're interested in
the cross entropy a bit more of course a good article to check out is called a friendly introduction
to cross entropy loss by Rob DiPietro.
2016 here's the link below.
Very very nice very soft to nothing.
No no super complex math.
Good analogies good examples using analogies of cars and you look at cars and talks about information
and bits and restrictions and you know how would you tackle this how would you call that it's.
So it's a good article to have a look at and we'll give you a good overview of across entropy like from
an introductory standpoint if you want to dig into the heavy math like what you see here then check
out an article by or a blog by how to implement a neural network Intermezzo to so interim like is like
an intermediary thing like a int. intermediates in you know like when you go to a theater and you have
like a break between the first part and the second part so that because he's like going through all
these steps and then he's like and then he says I got to explain this first.
And yeah so that's why it's called Intermezzo no other reason as far as I understand the articles by
Peter Rowland's 2016 as well so both are quite recent and Yo check out this if you would like to dig
into the mathematics behind cross entropy behind a soft Max and cross entropy in this article actually.
So there we go.
That's all there is to these two.
Hopefully I was able to add some more additional clarity and good luck with that.
It's gonna be fun and enjoy the practical tutorials.
I'll see you next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.